you
this lecture is about the evaluation of
texture retrieval systems in the
previous lectures we have talked about a
number of textual retrieval methods
different kinds of ranking functions but
how do we know which one looks the best
in order to answer this question we have
to compare them and that means we have
to evaluate these retrieval methods so
this is the main top because of this
lecture first let's think about why do
we have to deliberation I already give
one reason and that is we have to use
evaluation to figure out which retrieval
method works better now this was very
important for advancing our knowledge
otherwise we wouldn't know whether a new
idea works better than all the idea in
the beginning of this course we talked
about the problem of tax retrieval we
compare it with database retrieval there
we mentioned that tax retrieval is an
empirically defined problem so
evaluation must rely on users which a
system works better would have to be
judged by our users so this becomes a
very challenging problem because how can
we get users involved in the evaluation
how can we do a fair comparison of
different methods so just go back to the
reasons for evaluation is due to reasons
here the second the reason is basically
what I just said but there is also
another reason which is to assess the
actual utility of the tax retrieval
system now imagine you're building your
own so changing applications it would be
interested in knowing how well your
search engine works for your users so in
this case measures must reflect the
utility to the actual users in a real
application and typically this has to be
done by using user studies and using the
real search engine in the second case or
for the second reason
the less use actually all need to be
correlated with the utility to actual
users as they don't have to accurately
reflect that exactly utility users so
the measure only needs to be good enough
to tell which method works better and
this is usually done through a test
collection and this is the main idea
that we'll be talking about in this
course this has been very important for
comparing different algorithms and for
improving search engine system in
general so next what we talked about
what to measure right there are many
aspects of ascertaining that we can
measure we can evaluate and here I
listed the three major aspects one is
effectiveness so accuracy how accurate
are the search results in this case
we're measuring systems capability of
ranking rather than documents on top of
non-random the ones the second is
efficiency how quickly can I use a
getting results how much computing
resources are needed to answer a query
so in this case we need to measure the
space and time overhead of the system
the third aspect is usability basically
the question is how useful is the system
for real user tasks here obviously
interfaces and many other things are
also important and we typically would
have to do using studies now in this
course we're going to talk mostly about
effectiveness and accuracy measures
because the efficiency and the usability
dimensions are not really unique to
search engines and so they are needed
for evaluating any other software
systems and there is also good coverage
of such materials in other courses but
how to evaluate a search engines part
you know accuracy is something unique to
texture retrieval and we're going to
talk a lot about this the main idea that
people have proposed for using a test
Isetta to evaluate text original
algorithm is called the Cranfield
authority this one actually was
developed a long time ago
in 1960s it's a methodology for
laboratory test of system components
it's actually methodology that has been
very useful not just for so changing
evaluation but also for evaluating
virtually all kinds of empirical tasks
and for example in natural and
processing or in other fields whether
the problem is empirically defined we
typically would need to use such a
methodology and today with the big data
challenge with the use of machine
learning everywhere we can with this
methodology has been very popular but it
was first developed for Sur changing
application in 1960s so the basic idea
of this approach is to build a reusable
test collections and define measures
once such a test collection is build it
can be used again and again to test the
different algorithms and we're going to
define measures that would allow you to
quantify the performance of system and
algorithm so how exactly would this work
well we're going to have a sample
collection of documents and this is just
to simulate a real document collection
you know such application we're going to
also have a sample set of queries or
topics this is a little simulator the
users queries then will have to have
relevance judgments
these are judgments of which documents
should be returned for which queries
ideally they have to be made by users
who formulate to the queries because
those are the people that know exactly
what documents would be useful and then
finally we have to have measures to
quantify how where our systems read out
that matches the ideal rental list that
would be constructed based on users
relevance judgment
so this methodology is very useful for
starting retrieval algorithms because
the test attraction can be reused many
times and it would also provide a fair
comparison for all the methods we have
the same criteria same data set to be
used to come here
from the algorithms this allows us to
compare a new I wasn't with an old
algorithm that was the matter that many
years ago by using the same standard so
this is the illustration of how this
works so as I said we need a queries
that are shown here Q 1 Q 2 etc we also
need a documents that's called the
talking in the crime scene and on the
right side you see we need relevance
judgments these are basically the binary
judgments of documents with respect to a
query so for example Divine's judge has
been read in the to Kiawah D 2 is judges
in remand as well and D 3 is judging as
non relevant the to kill one etc these
would be created by users but once we
have these and then we basically have a
test collection and then if you have two
systems you want to compare them then
you can just run each a system on these
queries and documents and each system
would then return results let's say if
the query is a pure one and then we
would have results here here I show our
survey as results from system a so this
is remember we talked about a task of
computing approximation of the relevant
document set R sub a is system a's
approximation here and also B is system
B's approximation of relevant documents
now let's take a look at these results
so which is better
now imagine for a user which one would
you like
let's take a look at both results and
there are some differences and there are
some documents that are retained by both
systems but if you look at the results
you would to feel that well maybe a is
better in the sense that we don't have
many non relevant documents and among
the three tokens returned the two of
them are relevant so that's good it's
precise on the other hand one can also
say maybe B is better because with
more rather than the documents we've got
three instead of two so which one's
better and how do we quantify this well
obviously this question highly depends
on a user's task and it depends on users
as well you might be about imagine for
some users maybe the system a is better
if the user is not interested in getting
all the read in the document right in
this case it's just the user doesn't
have to read a mini and usual to see
most of the relevant documents on the
unhand and one can also imagine the user
might need to have as many relevant
documents as possible for example if
you're doing a literature survey you
might be in the second category and you
might find that the system B is better
so unique case we all have to also
define measures to go quantify them and
we might need to define multiple
measures because users have different
perspectives of looking at without
you